# RFC Template

**Feature Name:** Provide Raycasting and Highlight Utilities

**Start Date:** 2023-11-18

**Authors:** lassombra

**Related components/issues:**


## Summary

Provide a set of utility functions that can provide raycast hits against several useful layers, such as Car, Interior, Switch, Track, Job Pamphlet, as well as user defined layers.  Additionally, provide easy replication of vanilla highlight utilities, to include sign, car, track, track direction, and both positive and negative textures where applicable.


## Motivation

As this api aims to be a *relatively* one stop shop for mod authors to access comm radio features, it would be good to provide utilities for those features which come up regularly in the course of radio mode design.  The most common features are raycasting and highlighting.  Raycasting is important as knowing what the radio is pointed at is crucial to functionality in a lot of modes (anytime there is actually a laser realistically).  Highlighting is important as it is how you give feedback to the user
that what they think they are pointing at is what the radio thinks they are pointing at.

## Detailed design

I would anticipate this would be implemented as a separate static utility class which takes a CommRadio mode reference in some cases, but provides simple functions for each functionality.  I'll list the individual separate functions I anticipate here:

* Raycast - returns nullable RaycastHit object and accepts a layer mask and either accepts or uses in an instance fashion a CommRadio mode to get the cast source.
* Raycast Train Car - Calls the previous raycast function using the TrainCar and TrainCarInterior masks
* Raycast Track - Calls the previous raycast function using the Track mask
* Raycast Sign - Calls the previous Raycast function using the Sign mask

* Highlight Car - Sets a highlight on a car - accepts nullable TrainCar object if null, removes the current highlight.  Also accepts flag or enum to define type of highlight (blue or red are used in vanilla).
* Highlight Sign - Sets a highlight on a sign - accets nullable sign object if null removes the current highlight.
* Highlight Track - Sets a highlight on a track - accepts nullable trakc object, if null removes current highlight.  Also accepts direction flag and a length modifier.  Might be best to include a raycast hit object as well.


## Drawbacks

A lot of this functionality will not be used by any given mode.  Current functionality is almost 100% utilized by any given custom mode, but this functionality is much more specialized and most modes will only use a subset of this.
Instead, this suggests a cross section of popular functionality and suggests providing it as a library.
In addition, if DV ever changes key functionality of the raycast or layers, this may become more fragile by having more features tied inherently to internals of DV.

## Alternatives

The alternative is to leave raycasting and highlighting in the hands of mod authors and leave them to use tools like dnspy to determine what resources are available and to gain an idea of how to approach each of these tasks.  
Another alternative is to simply not use the comm radio api at all, though many authors who shy away from using the comm radio are instead opting to use simpler but better documented UI elements which are not VR compatible.  

## Release considerations

What type of change is this?

* Minor: This is entirely new functionally

## Open questions

I am unsure of the viability of highlighting arbitrary signs as I don't know of any existing mod or vanilla mode which does so.  The "sign" highlight provided by the switch mode is actually targeting a junction.
I am also unsure where to find other masks needed for raycasts as I've only personally worked with the traincar and traincar interior masks.
Additionally, that means I also haven't done anything with track highlighting which likely requires more information than just "which track" as I think track objects can reference very large stretches of track and therefore will need a more precise hit point.  That functionality might also need a lot of modifications beyond simple highlight as the spawn mode demonstrates.
